[SCRAPING]
[Man grunts softly]
[Blows]
[TACK JINGLES]
[Horse snorts]
[Horse grunts fitfully]
[Horse neighs]
[GUNSHOTS]
[Yells]
[Groans, gasps]
[Pants heavily]
[Gasps] Oh!
[GUNSHOT]
[BULLET WHISTLES PAST]
[Gasps, pants]
[Gasps, groans]
[Groans]
MAN: Well, you definitely got him.
Wouldn‘t say gut shot,
but you got him pretty good.
He didn‘t even take his rifle.
His horse run off, though.
It's clearing up some.
We oughta get a move on.
Let him bleed.
If he keeps going down, he‘s going
to get some distance on us.
He ain't going nowhere.
We let him bleed.
[Pants] Gosh!
[Gasps]
[Moans, gasps]
[Pants]
[Pants heavily]
[Gasps, groans]
[Groans]
[Grunts, gasps]
[Yells]
[Moans]
[Gasps, splutters]
[Splutters]
[Yells]
[Gasps]
[Gasps, groans]
[Moans]
[Pants heavily]
MAN: Well, let‘sjust get paid up
and be done with it.
He went in.
MAN: Yep. There's no tracks
on the other side.
He done gone over them falls.
Ain't no body.
[Laughs] Well,
he went in that there water...
There ain't no body.
There ain't gonna be no body.
There's always a body.
MAN: You expect us just
to conjure him?
I expect you to find him.
That's what I'm paying you for.
[Gasps, pants]
[Moans]
[Groans loudly]
Please...please...
..please...
Oh! Stay, stay.
Stay.
[Taps knife butt]
Come on! Ah!
[Groans] Oh!
[Gasps]
[Pants]
[Yells]
[Whimpers]
Oh... [Sobs]
[Groans]
[Yells]
[BULLET DROPS]
[Whimpers]
[Sobs]
Oh...God!
[Yells]
[Sobs]
Oh, God!
[Weakly] Oh, God...
Y'all smell that?
[Pants, gasps]
[HORSES NEIGH]
[GLASS SHATTERS]
[Gasps, pants]
[Pants]
[Shivers]
Don't touch it.
He's doubled back on his tracks.
Hayes, you and the Kid
follow those two.
Pope, you take that one.
Mr Parsons, you wait here.
I‘ll take this one.
He's not far,
so watch yourselves.
We got his gun.
But he ain't bleeding no more.
Yes, he is.
[Pants]
[Gasps]
[Grunts, yells]
[Whistles]
[Grunts]
[Groans]
Where's Pope?
The intervals are 10 feet. Be ready.
He's here.
Remember, if you kill this
sonofabitch, you will not be paid.
Extremities only.
[RIFLE COCKS]
Goddammit.
Oh, hell.
Lord almighty!
What did he do to Pope?
Mister, who the hell is this man?
Get the horses. We have him now.
He must be...part Injun, or...wolf.
Eat a man like that!
He didn't eat him.
Go.
Hey!
[Wheezes]
[Pants]
[Gasps]
[GUN COCKS]
WOMAN: Just what in the hell
do you think you're doin'?
[Sighs]
[Chuckles] I guess it makes sense.
Finished off by a young‘un.
lain't no young'un,
and I don't care to hear you say
another goddamn thing!
Now, come on outta there and put
your hands out in front of you.
Come on.
You been shot!
Trying to steal somebody else's
horse, I reckon!
I'd say you need
a new line of work, mister.
[Pants]
Nathaniel!
Nathaniel! Come on.
[Groans]
Lean on me.
Oh... [Groans]
[Groans] Thank you.
Oh, thank you, thank you.
Who is he?
Horse thief.
But he's hurt.
I'll pay for the horse.
You best rest yourself.
Pa will be home after a while.
He'll decide what to do with you.
[Sighs]
PARSONS: No more tracks, Carver.
HAYES: The trail's gone cold
up here.
[Pants hoarsely]
Your sister...
..she don't take kindly to thievin'.
Oh. There's plenty of time
for that when you grow up.
See that.
Yep, still bleeding.
Hey, there's, uh...
there's something else down here.
Take a look.
Yeah.
What did you see?
Charlotte!
We caught him trying to steal Red.
He's hurt.
Shot.
Who are you, mister?
l...l do some trapping,
a bit north of here.
Must be quite a bit north of here.
Quite a bit.
l, uh...don't expect
you shot yourself.
No. No.
Somebody after your hides? Hmm?
Infringin' on your territory?
l...l couldn't say.
You come down out of that pass...
..without a horse?
Up here, a man without a horse
is generally a dead man.
I reckon so.
So I don't take kindly
to a man trying to steal mine.
Like I told your girl,
I'll pay for the horse.
It's only...about six days walk
from here to town.
As I recall.
I‘ll pay you twice
what you paid for her.
If you can pay, why don't you
just walk yourself down there, hmm?
I'd rather not.
Nothing there.
Not a goddamn thing.
I'll go down there and take a look.
No.
We're done here.
We'll follow the ridge.
That's 16 days.
17 out of Mount Olive.
At a dollar a day.
You‘ll get your money
when we find him. Not before.
What d'you mean?
You saw.
That trail ends
down at the end of that ravine.
'Cause he never went down the ravine.
We follow the ridge.
[lmitates gunshot]
[Affects groaning]
[Groans]
[Chuckles]
Come here.
l'm Gideon.
Can I have...?
You don't talk much, do you, boy?
You know...
..it's not considered polite...
..to shoot a man who's
sleeping in your house.
Now...
Well...
..get on back to bed.
[Weeps]
Where is he?
Who the hell...
I'm doing the asking here!
Coffee and biscuits, woman.
Now, lie to me,
and I will fire this place
with you and yourn in it!
Now, where is he?
Must have left at first light.
We done got here at first light.
Damn fool.
Were he able-bodied
when he come here?
No.
Did you give him supplies?
Or a rifle?
No. He had a pistol.
He took that off of Pope
after he killed him.
You give him a horse?
No.
Ain't no horse for that one.
Mister, I don't know
where you come from,
but we helped
a shot mongrel of a man
and he's gone away in the night
and that's all we know.
You lying sonofabitch.
[Yells]
What did you sell him?
What did the devil get for his money?
[Yells]
[Screams]
Hayes!
I ain't paying you
to play with womenfolk.
[Snarls, gasps]
[Gasps]
Tell me about the man who came here.
And if I think you're lying,
I'll kill your brother
and hand you over to Mr Hayes.
He was here.
And he left in the night.
Stole the mare, looks like.
What about that gold?
I don't know.
I took it.
He was sleeping.
I took it from his bag.
| only wanted a gun.
To protect us.
Son, nobody can protect nobody
in this world.
Sooner you realise that, the better.
[Palms coins]
Hey. Pope's horse stays.
Hmm. Well.
You sonofabitch.
No wonder you don't talk much.
Too busy thinking.
Hmm.
How do you write 'wife'?
HAYES: Kid...
..it's W...
..H—O-R—E.
Don't much matter how you spell it.
Woman ain't going to be yours,
less'n you're paying her
for the night.
You paid her to be sweet to you,
Kid, that's all.
Don't never mix up money and love.
[Chuckles]
[Pants]
[RIFLE COCKS]
CARVER: Toss the pistol.
What do you want?
I would have thought
that was obvious,
seeing as how
I've been Shooting at you.
Keep them hands out.
Turn around.
Why are you doing this?
[Softly] Seraphim Falls.
Colonel...
..Carver.
Turn around.
I want to see your face.
[Whistles]
[Yells]
[Man shouts] Come on, boys -
he's up the hill!
[RUNNING FOOTSTEPS]
HAYES: What?
Double watches, rest of the night.
Whoa, whoa.
You'll be on him before long.
He was here today.
Watch the sides.
Make sure he didn‘t
break off and cover.
[Yells, groans]
[Horse neighs]
[Coughs]
Oh, Jesus Christ.
[Gurgles]
He's still breathing!
We got to get this thing off him!
[GUNSHOT]
Parsons. See about that horse.
Well, hey, we got
some discussing to do.
Right here and now.
We didn't negotiate based on
tracking no killer like this.
You're being well paid.
We‘re 18 days
on a 30-day commission,
and two of us is already dead.
Can't say I'm surprised.
The man we're after
preys on the weak and unprepared.
I'd advise you to take this
as a warning.
How about if we just decided
to take that as our walking papers?
You are, of course,
free to do that, Mr Hayes.
You will, however, do it
without the assistance
of my horse, on which you sit.
Am I clear, gentlemen?
We'll keep on.
But we want to split the pay
that's due them that's dead.
Done.
Now, we got distance to cover.
Our man makes it to the low country,
we'll likely never see him again.
Wouldn't catch me
complaining about that.
[Pants]
[Sighs heavily]
[Men banter and laugh]
[Pants]
Morning, stranger.
Didn't figure there were any
transients this far up.
Oh. Just passing through, is all.
You need some whiskey?
We got some whiskey.
Shut up, Horace.
I can't say as
I'm looking for whiskey,
but I sure could use some food.
[Chuckles]
Looks like you boys have got
other things on your mind.
Would have been helpful
if you hadn't seen those.
Well, if you ain't planning on
eating, I'll just be getting on.
'Fraid I can't let you do that.
You see, we's fugitives
from the law.
They catch us,
they're going to string us up.
Horace, you don't get quiet,
I'm going to hang you myself.
It don't much matter to me.
I'm just looking to be left alone.
Same as you.
Hmm?
So I'll be on my way.
You look powerful familiar, mister.
Do I know you?
Hmm. I doubt it.
I‘ll be damned.
That's one of McClellan‘s boys,
up Antietam.
Ain't you gonna kill him? Huh?
Waste of a bullet.
He's so banged up and hungry,
he won‘t make it to town anyway.
Lost both his sons...
..in one day
at that goddamn bridge.
I seen it myself.
Yeah?
But nothing touched him.
Not a scratch. Not a splinter.
[Laughs]
They say he killed over 100 men,
that day alone.
Him? Nah.
Hey, use some of that money
to get yourself some spectacles.
[Laughs]
Still, Virgil, the way
you shot that teller,
I thought you'd be itching
to do it again.
I'm itching to get out of here.
Let's get going.
Goddamn right. Let‘s go.
Don't ever go chasing
after that man.
If you don't shoot him,
I swear to Christ I will.
Can't be letting no stranger,
whoever the hell you think he is,
just walk into town and tell
them authorities where we gone!
Let's go. Come on.
Take care of it myself!
Horace!
Horace, come on!
'Fraid I'm gonna have to ask you
to stop walking.
[Sighs]
Let me be, boy.
Bestjust go on back up to your kin.
Mister, I never shot nobody
in the back before...
..so it's best you just turn around,
and you'll get what's coming to you.
Boy, now you put
that gun up and go on.
Turn around.
[Fires gun]
[Horse neighs]
You're a fool, boy.
I told you to let me pass on.
Hey!
There was three of them.
Two of them went on up.
One went down that way.
Look familiar, gentlemen?
Figure it's him that done it?
Course it's him.
Who else would be dropping folks
like owl pellets
all over these hills?
If he's got himself another horse,
we won't catch him before sundown.
I reckon we oughta move
down the valley, then.
He won't be heading
toward Carson City.
Come on. Let's get
off these cursed hills.
You two can go on without me.
What?
This boy's been wanted
for six months.
He‘s worth 250 in Carson.
It's a damn sight better
than what he's offering.
And this boy don't
require no Chasing.
You can'tjust leave.
The hell I can't.
You would too if you knew
what was good for you.
The posse's take's all yours
when the ride's done.
No less than 120,
and you don't have to ride
with a stinking corpse, neither.
Alright.
You sure?
You go on and get yourself killed.
I'm done.
[Clears throat] OK.
[Neighs]
Let him earn that 250 the hard way.
He ain't never going to make it
to town without a horse.
I told you boys -
them horses are mine.
MAN: Poppy, come here.
MAN: We can water your mare.
She looks hard—ridden.
Mercy to the beasts is blessed
in the eyes of the Lord.
He sees your sin!
[Men yell indistinctly]
[Men grunt]
[Women speak indistinctly]
I know you.
[People chatter indistinctly]
[CHICKENS SQUAWK]
Well, well, well. Lookee here.
Boys, we've caught ourselves
a real, live, notorious criminal.
250 for that
horse-thieving varmint.
You ought to have known better
than to steal from the Bar H.
Old man McCleeny don't take kindly
to losing horseflesh like this.
You want another one?
You fuck, you.
[Men grunt]
CARVER: You the foreman?
Who's looking?
Might have been a man
rode through here.
Tall. Don't talk much.
Is that so?
I'd like to find him.
[Cocks rifle]
There's nothing for you here.
What do you want with this fella?
| just want him.
Is the horse yours?
Ain't about horses.
'Cause there's been some
horse thieves around these parts.
A lot of men like to
see them caught, you know.
Well, they won't trouble us.
I reckon so.
I'd be obliged
if we could take water here,
and then we'll leave you
to your work.
Lewis here will show you where.
[Sighs]
Help yourself, Paddy boy.
Shut up.
Gotta piss. I'll find you.
You going to hold it for me?
Paddy boy.
Ah. [Clicks tongue]
I said shut your goddamn mouth.
Oh!
[Saws rope]
He's gone.
Gone? How in the hell...?
Alright, you two.
Down by the bridge.
Jesus, Mary and Joseph.
Alright. Down that way. Eejits.
Open the gate.
Oi.
Check on them other two.
I want them out of here.
[Cocks rifle] I thought you weren't
interested in horses, mister.
I'm not.
I think it's time you told me what
it is you ARE interested in here.
Nothing.
Alright. I like that.
[Chuckles]
[Man grunts]
Like | said...|'d be obliged for
some water, and we'll be on our way.
Suppose you just
be on your way then, huh?
[Man coughs]
Get up, you big baby.
Get your gun.
You fuck, you.
[Speaks indistinctly]
Let's move.
Pilgrims, you arrived just in time.
May we offer you shelter
and...fellowship?
We can pay if you have
some food to spare.
The Lord is bountiful.
Our venison stew
is a week in the pot.
And fire every day.
Come.
Reckon we ought to camp
somewheres else?
Afraid the word of God
will spoil your digestion?
[Grunts] Never was much
for Scripture.
Nothing to fear, Mr Hayes.
Them's just words.
Ain't no God out here.
[SOMBRE MUSIC]
[Sighs]
HAYES: Say, how'd you...
come by that scar on your neck?
No, it was worse.
[Chuckles] Mormons.
Praise be God and a good rifle.
Answered my prayers and not his.
You ought to have a talk
with your God about that.
Figure he ought to be more careful.
You being the chosen folk and all.
Well, it could be he WAS careful,
or I'd be dead.
So you figure
God were on your side, then?
He's always on the side
of the righteous, son.
If you don't mind...
I'll take his share.
Help me digest
that fine stew of yours.
Play something for our guests,
children. No hymns.
MAN: You ready?
No damn hymns. [Laughs]
[Musicians play upbeat folk music]
Up, up. Everyone up.
Come on.
[People whoop]
[All whoop]
[Breathes shakily]
[HOOFS POUND, HORSES NEIGH]
[HORSES NEIGH]
[Murmurs]
[Pants]
Ah.
Goddamn preacher. [Sniffs]
You did that to yourself.
[Sighs]
Why don't you mind
how you talk to me?
Just you and me out here now.
You go for me, you don't get paid.
Anyway, the noise would make that
head of yours split clean through.
Much obliged.
[Cocks gun]
Don't you ever
threaten me again, boy.
Understand?
Check your weapon.
Oh, shit!
Goddamn missionaries.
Thieving bastards. Emptied our guns.
I told you we ought to camp
some place else.
Long as I've still got
the one for him...
..I guess it don't much matter.
[BIRDS CAW]
What the hell
were they doing out here?
Certain kind of decision.
Once a man makes it,
he can't end up nowhere but here.
[WOOD CLUNKS]
[Pants, gasps]
[Sighs]
[Speaks indistinctly]
[ CRACKING ]
[Horse wheezes]
[Groans]
[Gideon sighs]
[Whispers] You did well.
[Nickers]
There you go.
[Groans softly]
There you go, now.
Go on. Go.
Yeah, you go, now.
You go. Go now.
You did well.
Did well.
[FLIES BUZZ]
What the hell kind of animal
would have done that? Huh?
Shit.
Hell, there ain't no animal...
[Roars]
[Grunts savagely]
Get off the horse.
Easy, now.
Yeah.
Uh—huh.
GIDEON: Get off the horse.
Toss the gun over here.
Just do like he says, Carver.
Just do it.
GIDEON: Easy.
[Grunts]
On your knees.
Now.
Ain't you going to ask me
to spare you, Cap'n?
Ain‘t that what cowards
are supposed to say?
Just as well.
Because I ain't planning on it.
Toss that knife over here.
I ain't going to let you try anything
before I send you down.
Finish it, then, huh?
Not so fast.
I've been hunting you for...
..oh...l don't know how long.
No sense in rushing it now.
The war's over, sir.
Has been three years.
Won't never be over.
It was war.
War...
..war is men fighting,
you sonofabitch.
That weren't war, what you did.
It was orders.
Orders you gave, Cap'n.
[Grunts] Yeah. There we go.
Alright, Danny. Your turn.
Hit it round the edges.
Nice and hard.
Get your balance.
Put that leg over.
Nice and hard, now.
Now you're getting it.
Now you've got it.
It's not going to bite you.
[Horses neigh shrilly]
Danny.
Get off this land!
Ma'am, we have it
on good information
that this is the home
of Colonel Morsman Carver.
He's my husband.
Is he here, ma'am?
No. He's not here.
Search the house, Lieutenant.
MAN: Yes, sir.
The house. Barns.
Show them the hard hand, boys.
Check upstairs.
MAN: Cellar's clear.
Where's the colonel, ma'am?
[Spits]
[Cries out]
Mind yourself, Lieutenant.
Where is he, ma'am?
Fire the barns. Leave the house.
No! Stop!
Rose!
No!
GIDEON: Colonel.
Stay back!
Where are your men, Colonel?
War's over.
You know the war's over, Cap'n.
ROSE: No!
Where are your men?
I released them.
Months ago, I released them.
And the cannon?
Shattered all to hell.
Abandoned outside Atlanta.
Get your hands off me,
you Yankee scum!
No. No!
My baby! Please!
Let go! [Sobs] Let go...
Jesus, God!
Let go!
NO!
Rose!
Let go of me! Danny! No!
Danny! Danny, come back!
[Rose screams, sobs]
[TIMBER CREAKS]
[Yells desperately]
Oh, God! Let me help.
[Screams]
[Gasps]
[TIMBER COLLAPSES]
You said the house was empty.
[Gasps]
You...
..you sonofabitch.
God damn you to hell.
You said the house was empty!
They're rebs...Captain.
CARVER: You burned that house.
And them in it.
Your turn now.
"All they that take the sword...
"..shall perish with the sword."
[Grunts]
Oh!
[Gasps]
[Yells]
Enough! Enough!
It's done.
40 miles to Red Rock City.
You head over that ridge,
you'll be alright.
You keep coming after me...
..you ain't going to find
nothing but torment.
[Murmurs]
[Grunts softly]
[Sighs]
You will pay for that life...
or you will pay with yours.
I'm going to fill my skin...
..and water the horses...
and then I'll be leaving.
That there is life.
Nothing round here is free.
Ain‘t got no gold.
You can look for yourself.
How to value a man‘s life?
How about...one for another?
The black one is good.
Leave him...and you may go.
[THUNDER RUMBLES IN DISTANCE]
"Blessed be the Lord, my strength.
"He teaches my fingers to fight...
"..and my hands to war."
Amen.
[Sighs] Come on.
Leave me be, old man.
[Laughs]
That your horse?
No.
It's yours.
[Jingles coins]
Go as you wish.
That which is yours
will always return to you.
That which you take
will always be taken from you.
[Chuckles]
That's for the water. Not the horse.
[Gideon gasps]
[Horse nickers weakly]
Man could die out here
if he's not careful.
Oh. I didn't see you come up.
That's 'cause you keep
looking behind you.
Perhaps you'd be interested
in a little ration
of Madame Louise's Cure All.
Course, some say it's the demon rum
in a fancy bottle.
But it'll cure what ails you.
Well, thank you kindly.
But I'm afraid ain't no bottle
going to sort out my troubles.
You men.
You're always choosing a gun
over a remedy.
It don't really much matter
what I choose.
Got no money, either way.
Oh, hell. I never let that
stand in the way of making a deal.
What's wrong with that .44?
Nothing.
How old's the animal?
I don't really know.
Steal her, did you?
Not exactly.
[Chuckles]
Spoken like a true sinner.
Well, hell,
don't matter much out here.
Man's got to do
what a man's got to do, right?
Yeah.
I suppose we'd best fix you up.
Cost you the horse.
Well...
..I reckon I ain't
getting out of here anyway.
Hell, I'll even throw in
a bottle of the curative.
Huh.
Hey!
Don't forget your curative.
[LIQUID HISSES]
[Neighs]
[Pants]
[Grunts]
Look at that sun long enough,
you'll go blind.
Or worse.
Mad.
What the hell you want?
I'm just a humble pedlar.
Offering a cure to an ailing world.
I ain't looking for no cure.
Why, that's just what
your friend said.
That what he's calling himself?
What would you call him?
Somebody who could use a taste
of that Colt of yours.
Tell you what, stranger.
I've got three thirsty animals
over there.
I'll trade you this here steel...
..for that water you've got.
What do you say?
Got us a deal?
Yeah.
[Examines gun]
Just the one shell.
[Chuckles]
You looking for more?
I reckon not.
[Sighs]
Time was...
you said your war was over.
Only the dead
know the end of war, Cap'n.
[Groans]
Go on.
Finish it.
I believe it's up to you, sir.
Rose.
Forgive me.
[Groans]